Add CloseWatcher reference pages (#33910)
mdn/content: files/en-us/web/api/closewatcher/index.md

---
title: CloseWatcher
slug: Web/API/CloseWatcher
page-type: web-api-interface
status:
  - experimental
browser-compat: api.CloseWatcher
---

{{APIRef("HTML DOM")}} {{SeeCompatTable}}

> The `CloseWatcher` interface listens and responds to close requests. The user usually sends close requests using the <kbd>Esc</kbd> key, the back button on Android, the "z" gesture on iOS VoiceOver, and similar actions on other platforms. Custom UI components don't respond to these close requests like built-in components ([popover](/en-US/docs/Web/API/Popover_API) or [dialog](/en-US/docs/Web/HTML/Element/dialog)) do. The `CloseWatcher` API abstracts device-specific close methods and delivers a `close` event that custom UI components can use to deliver a device-integrated close behaviour.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `CloseWatcher` interface listens and responds to close requests.

Some UI components have "close behavior", meaning that the component appears, and the user can close it when they are finished with it. For example: sidebars, popups, dialogs, or notifications.

Users generally expect to be able to use a particular mechanism to close these elements, and the mechanism tends to be device-specific. For example, on a device with a keyboard it might be the <kbd>Esc</kbd> key, but Android might use the back button. For built-in components, such as [popover](/en-US/docs/Web/API/Popover_API) or {{htmlelement("dialog")}} elements, the browser takes care of these differences, closing the element when the user performs the close action appropriate for the device. However, when a web developer implements their own closable UI component (for example, a sidebar), it is hard to implement this kind of device-specific close behavior. The `CloseWatcher` interface solves this problem by delivering a `close` event to the when the user executes the close action for the device.
```

(just a suggestion, please feel free to reject if you prefer the original)

---
title: CloseWatcher
slug: Web/API/CloseWatcher
page-type: web-api-interface
status:
  - experimental
browser-compat: api.CloseWatcher
---

{{APIRef("HTML DOM")}} {{SeeCompatTable}}

> The `CloseWatcher` API listens and responds to close requests. A close request can be for anything that the user wants to close, like a [popover](/en-US/docs/Web/API/Popover_API), a sidebar, a [dialog](/en-US/docs/Web/HTML/Element/dialog), or any UI that has an open/close interaction.

Reviewer 2: Yes dialog (specifically when showModal is used) and popover (specifically when popover="auto") have an internal close watcher, so you don't need to use this API for those elements. However, for anything else you make yourself you would use this API.

- {{domxref("CloseWatcher.close()")}} {{Experimental_Inline}}
  - : Immediately fires the `close` event and deactivates the close watcher as if `destroy()` was called. Skips any logic in the `cancel` event handler.
- {{domxref("CloseWatcher.destroy()")}} {{Experimental_Inline}}
  - : Deactivates the close watcher so that it will no longer receive `close` events.

## Events

- {{domxref("CloseWatcher.cancel_event", "cancel")}} {{Experimental_Inline}}
  - : An event fired before the `close` event, so that `close` can be prevented from firing.
- {{domxref("CloseWatcher.close_event", "close")}} {{Experimental_Inline}}
  - : An event fired when a close request was received.

## Examples

### Using the `CloseWatcher` API

The following code example gives an overview how use use the `CloseWatcher` methods and events.

```js
// Create a new close watcher
const watcher = new CloseWatcher();

// Listen for close requests
watcher.addEventListener("close", () => {
  // Close your UI component
  sidebar.hide();
  // Dispose the watcher instance
  watcher.destroy();
};

// Use the cancel event to interrupt the close request
watcher.addEventListener("cancel", (e) => {
  e.preventDefault();

>   // Close if some condition is met

Reviewer 2: A common case might be if you want to show an Are you sure prompt when closing an element with a "dirty" form inside.
